---
layout: post
title: "SXSW Day 1"
date: 2012-03-09 18:21
comments: true
categories: [SXSW, Travel, Conferences] 
---

### Wake Up! It's a beautifu—... It's a day in Austin! ###
Today is the first day of SXSW Interactive and also my first full day here in lovely Austin, Texas. The weather has been pretty gnarly with consistent downpours and that trend looks to continue. One upshot of the nasty weather is that participants are forced to congregate in little groups while waiting on shuttles and everyone can take a moment to chat up their fellow festival goers.

The first thing on the todo list was to pickup my badge and brave the registration gauntlet which wrapped well around the front of the Austin Convention Center. For such a giant line it actually moved quite fast but I realized later on that even though I showed up at close to 10:30 I was still one of the early birds. By mid afternoon it had almost doubled in size. With badge in hand and 3 **ridiculously heavy gift bags** I set out to get my bearings and figure out the festival layout.

### Hello, Rob... Pepsi is calling. ###
One of the first and coolest things I saw on the trade room floor was the PepsiCo Lounge featuring a ton of Samsung's new "Smart Window" displays. If you haven't heard of the Smart Windows checkout [this great video feature](http://www.wired.com/gadgetlab/2012/01/samsung-transparent-lcd/) by my SXSWi roomie Christina Bonnington ([@redgirlsays](https://twitter.com/#!/redgirlsays)) from [Wired's Gadget Lab blog](http://www.wired.com/gadgetlab/). The Pepsi lounge is demoing the touchscreens on a pair of vending machines which run video loops of refreshing Pepsi products and also allow the user to "gift" a soda to their friends by filling out a short form with an onscreen keyboard. Pepsi is also running an art project asking participants to "Imagine the Future of Digital," the centerpiece of which is a full size phone booth constructed almost entirely of Smart Window touchscreens. As the participants enter the booth a series of animations play that making it appear to the outside audience that the booth is filling up with Pepsi. Not only is this a _crazy_ effect to see in person but it also serves the dual function of giving the participant privacy and providing a solid background for the interior touch graphics to display upon. The experience tasks the user with following an in-phone narrator as he guides you through various tasks like giving an elevator pitch into the receiver and touching the walls to indicate aspects of your personality. 

The project was produced in Unity3D which I found somewhat surprising given the high amount of video and lack of any real 3D animations. Unfortunately the presenter couldn't give me any more technical detail than that but it does get at something I've noticed recently, having just produced a touch screen myself, and that's the lack of really good tools for doing these kinds of projects. The current players are openFrameworks, Processing, Flash + Scaleform and (I suppose) add Unity to that list as well. While these are all great tools in their own right none of them are specifically designed for the world of touch, and as such they all have major failings when compared to the standard-bearer, Apple's Cocoa Touch Framework. Still the Pepsi team has done a brilliant job and I would expect to see a lot more of these transparent screens in the near future. It was so jaw dropping (and I'm a pretty jaded nerd) I can't help but imagine the slew of creative directors vibrating in their shoes at the site of these things.

### NERD RAGE ###
Next up was the job fair (booooooooring) and then on to the ScreenBurn arcade. I guess I was a little let down by the arcade as I was expecting more of a...well...arcade. And while it _is_ a total spectacle of nerdy goodness, it's actually more of a trade room floor where various developers are pimping their wares. I did see some indie devs with interesting projects but much of the work looked under-polished or just plain retarded. Guess what people? Augmented Reality was cool like three years ago and there's no fucking way I'm going to walk through the streets of San Francisco holding my iPad in front of my face so I can collect stupid points for your poorly gamified Groupon clone. That seems like a good way to step in front of a Muni bus (and oh the lolz that would be had..). I got a drink at the bar and plopped down in a chair to watch the Tekken vs Street Fighter competition featuring actual professional gamers. What was more astonishing though were the professional gaming _commentators!_ I can't believe that's an actual job that an actual person can have and pay their actual rent! Mind = blown. To their credit they made the whole thing **much** less creepy as it would otherwise have been a room full of nerds all silently watching a stage full of nerds play Street Fighter. At least I think they made it less creepy. I was hitting the Jack Daniel's pretty hard at that point because it was too wet outside to leave.

### Leaving Flatland ###
I finally ended up at the Radisson to hear the Leaving Flatland WebGL talk by Nicolas Garcia Belmonte ([@philogb](http://twitter.com/philogb)) and Luz Caballero ([@gerbille](http://twitter.com/gerbille)). A super interesting, albeit brief, explanation of the very basics of WebGL, libraries and shaders. Nicolas is the author of [PhiloGL](http://www.senchalabs.org/philogl/) which he demoed during the presentation as an alternative to Three.js. Having never heard of PhiloGL before I was really impressed with the demos he showed and quite enjoy the module system which allows you to include only the aspects of the framework that you actually need for your project. Hopefully in a future blog post I can take it for a spin.

During the QA round an engineer from the Chrome team got up to briefly touch upon the issues that Google has had with brining WebGL to the Webkit mobile browser. Currently the only browsers supporting WebGL on phones are from Opera and Mozilla. He mentioned that Sony has recently open sourced a WebGL implementation that they might be able to use but that's still a ways away. Like most things regarding WebGL, it's in the works but not ready for prime time yet.

### And now we drink! ###
It's been a long day of shuttles, hiking, more shuttles and taxis. At this point I'm totally exhausted and just sitting in a Starbucks to recoup. My backpack has more swag than I know what to do with and at some point people started putting stickers on it so now it's also a billboard. In the spirit of SXSW the next logical thing would be to go party but right now I'm about ready to pass out. I'll have to drink some more tea and see how I feel I guess. For now, I'm signing off, see you tomorrow!